Create why-prefer-symfony-bundles-over-plugins-in-shopware-projects.md (#19)
shyim/shyim.me: content/blog/2021-07-04-why-prefer-symfony-bundles-over-plugins-in-shopware-projects.md

---
id: shopware-symfony-bundles

> title: Why Symfony bundles are better than plugins in Shopware projects for customization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Why Symfony bundles are better for customization than plugins in Shopware projects
```

author: Shyim
author_title: Developer @ Shopware
author_url: https://github.com/shyim
author_image_url: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/6224096?s=460&u=18be3a2d46f07dd42fc2b6dee9b4b9b68bca28d2&v=4
tags: [shopware]
---

> Every developer which created a Plugin did already created a Symfony Bundle. All Shopware plugins are extending from a Shopware Bundle class which extends from the Symfony Bundle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every developer who has created a Plugin has already created a Symfony Bundle. All Shopware plugins are extending from a Shopware Bundle class which extends from the Symfony Bundle.
```

> Every developer who has created a Plugin has already created a Symfony Bundle. All Shopware plugins are extending from a Shopware Bundle class which extends from the Symfony Bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every developer who has created a plugin has already created a Symfony bundle. All Shopware plugins are extending from a Shopware bundle class which extends from the Symfony bundle.
```

> You might now ask yourself when plugins are bundles why did you wrote this blog post? Lets first list the difference of an plugin and the two bundles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might now ask yourself: when plugins are bundles, then why did you wrote this blog post? Let's first list the differences of a plugin and the two types of bundles.
```

> You might now ask yourself: when plugins are bundles, then why did you wrote this blog post? Let's first list the differences of a plugin and the two types of bundles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You might now ask yourself: when plugins are bundles, why did you write this blog post? First, let's list the differences of a plugin and the two types of bundles:
```

| Feature                                            	| Plugin 	| Shopware Bundle 	| Symfony Bundle 	|
|----------------------------------------------------	|--------	|-----------------	|----------------	|
| modifying Shopware                                 	| ✔️      	| ✔️               	| ✔️              	|
| can have migrations                                	| ✔️      	| ✔️               	| ❌              	|
| can be a theme                                     	| ✔️      	| ✔️               	| ✔️              	|
| can be installed, uninstalled (lifecyle)           	| ✔️      	| ❌               	| ❌              	|
| can be managed by the shop owner in administration 	| ✔️      	| ❌               	| ❌              	|

## The benefits of working with a Bundle

> As an agency you don't want that the shop owner can manage your built extensions. The lifecycle of the plugins is mostly intended for store distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an agency, you don't want the shop owner to manage your custom built extensions. The lifecycle of plugins is intended mostly for store distribution and often irrelevant in a custom built environment.
```

> When you make changes on a project, you want that your code is always active regardless of the state of it. This makes Shopware updates also smoother, as the upgrade process runs without plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you make changes to a project, you want your code to be active always, regardless of the state of the shop. This makes Shopware updates smoother as well, as the upgrade process runs without plugins.
```

> This solves theme compile issues on update process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This solves theme compile issues during update process, e.g.
```

> You don't want to manage your own built extensions for that project too in your deployment together with the other plugins from the store. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You don't want to manage your own built extensions for a project, too, in your deployment, together with other plugins from the Shopware store. 
```

Reviewer: But why wouldn't you? What are the issues with doing that?

Also you could store the entire Code in the template of the Shopware 6 project.

> ## What's about Tasks which happens normally in Install / Update?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What's about tasks that usually happen during install / update?
```

> When your Bundle extends from Shopware Bundle, your bundle will automaticly register itself to the migration system. So you can write as usual migrations and run them in the cli using the `database:migrate` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your bundle extends from Shopware bundle, your bundle will automatically register itself to the migration system. So you can write migrations as usual and run them in the CLI using the `database:migrate` command.
```

> Shopware keeps track also of extending the Administration etc. For tasks like creating entities, you could implement an simple command which does it for you. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shopware also keeps track of extending the Administration etc. For tasks like creating entities, you could implement an simple command, which does it for you. 
```

It's also easier to test a command instead a entire plugin lifecycle. 

## Bundle as a Theme?

> A bundle can be also a Theme in Shopware. You will need to implement the `ThemeInterface` like [here](https://github.com/shopware/platform/blob/trunk/src/Storefront/Storefront.php#L23) and run later `theme:refresh` in the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A bundle can be also a theme in Shopware. You just need to implement the `ThemeInterface` like [here](https://github.com/shopware/platform/blob/trunk/src/Storefront/Storefront.php#L23) and run `theme:refresh` in the console later.
```

> ## How will the Bundle integrated?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How does the Bundle integrate itself?
```

> ## How does the Bundle integrate itself?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How does a bundle integrate itself?
```

> The bundle will be integrated like Symfony usual in the `config/packages.php` [file](https://github.com/shopware/production/blob/6.4/config/bundles.php#L19).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bundle can be integrated like usuals in Symfony, in the `config/packages.php` [file](https://github.com/shopware/production/blob/6.4/config/bundles.php#L19).
```

> You could integrate your Bundle code into the `src` folder of the template and register a new namespace in the project `composer.json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You could integrate your bundle code into the `src` folder of the template and register a new namespace in the project `composer.json`
```

Reviewer: Why the template, that doesn't sound intuitive

Author: I did mean the production template :D

# One Bundle per project or multiple ones?

> When you need that code shared, you should think about creating a new bundle and sharing it with a composer package. This depends also how you structure code internally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you need to share your code, you should think about creating a new bundle and sharing it with a composer package. This depends also how you structure code internally.
```

> Personaly I would place any code also the theme inside one bundle bundle. It reduces the headache about decorator prioerties in the DI or template order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Personally, I would place any code, as well as the theme, inside one single bundle. This reduces the headache regarding decorator priorities in the DI, or order of templates.
```

> ## When should I prefer plugins?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## In what cases should I prefer plugins?
```

> - When you want to provide it in the Store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- IN case you want to provide it in the Shopware store
```

> - When you need to toggle your Plugin in the runtime without a new deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In case you need to toggle your plugin during runtime, without a new deployment
```

> - IN case you want to offer it in the Shopware store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In case you want to offer it in the Shopware store
```

> - Need the `plugin.xml` feature. Can be done with an simple admin module and the usage of `sw-system-config` too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- IN case you need the `plugin.xml` feature. But this can be done with an simple admin module and the usage of `sw-system-config`, too.
```

> - IN case you need the `plugin.xml` feature. But this can be done with an simple admin module and the usage of `sw-system-config`, too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In case you need the `plugin.xml` feature. But this can be done with an simple admin module and the usage of `sw-system-config`, too.
```

## Conclusion

> We used this pattern last year on the Shopware Downtown project and was a neat way to extending Shopware 6. It made for us the deployment easier as we didn't had to think about plugin installation or update stuff. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We used this pattern last year on the Shopware Downtown project and was a neat way to extending Shopware 6. It made for us the deployment easier as we didn't had to think about plugin installation or update stuff. 
```
```suggestion
We used this pattern last year on the Shopware Downtown project and it was a neat way to extend Shopware 6. It made the deployment a lot easier for us, as we didn't have to think about plugin installation or update stuff. 
```

> The new devs didn't had to install or activate the plugins. Our own migrations did run together with the Setup process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new devs didn't have to install or activate plugins. Our own migrations did run together with the setup process. 
```

> The code is public from the project, make your own oppion with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code of the project is public, make your own opinon.
```

> - Integration of the Bundles: https://github.com/shopwareDowntown/downtown/blob/master/src/Kernel.php#L55-L58 (Can be done too in config/bundles.php. Did there to avoid conflicts when updating template)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Integration of the bundles: https://github.com/shopwareDowntown/downtown/blob/master/src/Kernel.php#L55-L58 (Can be done in `config/bundles.php`, too. Was done there to avoid conflicts when updating templates)
```
